    The .NET Class Library is a collection of thousands of classes containing tens of thousands of methods. For example, the .NET Class Library includes the Console class for developers working on console applications. The Console class includes methods for input and output operations such as Write(), WriteLine(), Read(), ReadLine(), and many others. For example, you may already be familiar with the following code:

    Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!")

    The classes and methods in the .NET Class Library are created by Microsoft and are available for use in your applications.

Even data types are part of the .NET Class Library

    C# data types (such as string and int) are actually made available through classes in the .NET Class Library. The C# language masks the connection between the data types and the .NET classes in order to simplify your work. However, behind the scenes, the data types are implemented just like every other class in the .NET Class Library. This connection provides your everyday variables with built-in methods that can be very helpful. The string class has lots of these helpful methods. For example, the string class has methods for converting text to uppercase and lowercase (ToUpper and ToLower)

How to find what you need in the .NET Class Library

    First of all, remember that finding every class and method in the .NET Class Library is like finding every book in a large public library. You don't need every book in the library, and you won't be using every class and method in the .NET Class Library. Depending on the types of projects that you work on, you'll become more familiar with some parts of the .NET Class Library and less familiar with others.

    Second, necessity will drive you to what you need. Most people go to the library when they need to find a book, not to see how many different books they can find. You don't need to research classes and methods without a reason. When you have trouble figuring out a programming task, you can use your favorite search engine to find blog posts, articles, or forums where other developers have worked through similar issues. Third-party sources can give you clues about which .NET classes and methods you might want to use, and you may even find sample code that you can try.