A variable is a container for storing a type of value. Variables are important because their values can change, or vary, throughout the execution of a program. Variables can be assigned, read, and changed. You use variables to store values that you intend to use in your code.

A variable name is a human-friendly label that the compiler assigns to a memory address. When you want to store or change a value in that memory address, or whenever you want to retrieve the stored value, you just use the variable name you created.

Variable name rules and conventions:-
    A software developer once famously said "The hardest part of software development is naming things." Not only does the name of a variable have to follow certain syntax rules, it should also be used to make the code more human-readable and understandable. That's a lot to ask of one line of code!

    Variable names can contain alphanumeric characters and the underscore character. Special characters like the hash symbol # (also known as the number symbol or pound symbol) or dollar symbol $ are not allowed.

    Variable names must begin with an alphabetical letter or an underscore, not a number.

    Variable names are case-sensitive, meaning that string Value; and string value; are two different variables.

    Variable names must not be a C# keyword. For example, you cannot use the following variable declarations: decimal decimal; or string string;

Here are some coding conventions for variables:

    Variable names should use camel case, which is a style of writing that uses a lower-case letter at the beginning of the first word and an upper-case letter at the beginning of each subsequent word. For example, string thisIsCamelCase;

    Variable names should begin with an alphabetical letter. Developers use the underscore for a special purpose, so try to not use that for now.
    
    Variable names should be descriptive and meaningful in your app. Choose a name for your variable that represents the kind of data it will hold.

    Variable names should be one or more entire words appended together. Don't use contractions or abbreviations because the name of the variable (and therefore, its purpose) may be unclear to others who are reading your code.

    Variable names shouldn't include the data type of the variable. You might see some advice to use a style like string strValue;. That advice is no longer current.

Variable name examples
Here's a few examples of variable declarations using the data types you learned about thus far:

char userOption;

int gameScore;

decimal particlesPerMillion;

bool processedCustomer;

// Refer the article for Setting and getting values from variables: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/csharp-literals-variables/4-exercise-variables